Hey everyone, thanks for joining us as we take a deeper dive into the Gospel of Mark today. My name is Andrew and we're going to be in Mark chapter 5 verses 21 through 40.
1 through 43. Okay
What's happening in this passage?
It's a story of two women.
It's the daughter.
of Gyrus?
And it's the woman with the issue of blood.
And in these two interactions, we see
The incredible love and the intentionality of Jesus.
And were reminded
of the ministry that he has for us today.
So let's dive in and find out what it is that Jesus has to say.
From this passage.
you see.
Jesus is crossing over by boat again
Around the lake the Sea of Galilee
And in verse 22, it says, And behold, one of the rulers of the synagogue came and said,
Jairus by name.
And when he saw him, he fell at his feet, and he begged him earnestly, saying, My little daughter lies at the point of death.
Come and lay your hands on her, that she may be healed.
And she will live.
Here you have
An incredibly dramatic scene because you have a father
Who's got no other help, who's got no other hope.
The doctors, they can't do anything for him. And so he comes running to Jesus.
Jesus gets off the boat, and this is the first thing that he comes in contact with.
A scenario
Yeah, that he's sovereign over, but.
A father who's broken, who's worried.
Who's frantic and frustrated?
Hoping that Jesus can come.
Heal and help his daughter
and i love that.
But here's what I remind you of. I read this quote.
By a famous actor named Jim Carrey. And it reminds me of this truth that position doesn't bring peace.
You see, Jairus was the ruler of the synagogue. He was a prominent guy in his community.
It's probably well off.
But he didn't have peace.
Have problems.
You see, our position that we strive for doesn't necessarily
give us peace and we find ourselves oftentimes in this life striving for positions, striving for maybe a different job or a different job title, maybe living in a different neighborhood, driving
Driving a different car.
maybe maybe we just want that race.
And we desire position thinking that that position is going to bring us peace. But here's the quote by Jim Carrey.
i think everybody should get rich and famous and do everything they ever dreamed of.
So that they cannot, they can see it's not the answer.
So that they can see it's not the answer.
See, getting all your dreams and having all the wealth and having all the fame, it's not.
The way of peace.
And so Jairus finds himself in this scenario where he has the position, but he doesn't have the peace.
But his.
His move.
is right. He comes to Jesus and he goes, "Ah, Jesus, help."
Because Jesus is the one who has the peace.
He has the hope. He has the healing. And so Jesus goes with him. He's going to help us.
This dad with his daughter.
and as he's going in verse twenty-five, the multitudes are thronging him. it's not just jesus and dad, it's jesus, dad and a whole lot of other people around him.
125. Verse 25. Now a certain woman
Had a flow of blood for 12
Years.
she had suffered many things from many physicians she had spent all that she had and was no better but rather grew worse
"'When she heard about Jesus, she came behind him "'in the crowd and touched his garment.'"
For she said, if.
I, if only I may touch his clothes.
I shall be made.
Well.
Well, here's a different...
Woman.
not Jairus's daughter but it's a woman
Who was not wealthy.
She didn't have position.
She was poor.
But we just read it. The Bible says that she spent all of the money that she had,
Trying to get medical treatment and help and none of it had worked.
Twelve years.
She's medically bankrupt.
She's struggling.
But she knows, hey,
Jesus can heal me.
And so she's a part of that throng, that multitude that's crowding around Jesus. She's not going to interrupt him because he's on mission. He's going to go help Jairus' daughter. All she wants to do is touch her.
touch.
His coat.
That's it.
If I can just barely touch the hymn.
Just the bottom of it. I can just reach through the crowd and just grab something. Maybe it's a sleeve.
If I can just touch...
Not even him.
But,
The garment itself maybe that can get healed
And her faith.
Makes a difference.
1 Timothy 1, verse 29, Immediately the fountain
Was dried up and she felt in her body that she was healed of the affliction.
And Jesus, immediately knowing in himself that the power had gone out of him, turned around in the crowd and said, "Who touched my clothes?"
And the disciples go, what are you, nuts?
We're surrounded by people. What do you mean, who touched your clothes?
Verse thirty three, but the woman,
Fearing and trembling, knowing what had happened to her.
Came and fell down before him and told him.
The whole.
Truth.
And here you have this beautiful scene where the woman's like
I got caught.
But I'm healed.
But he knows.
So I gotta come clean.
Because he's made me clean.
But here's what you got to remember. In the middle of all of this interruption,
Jairus is still
Worried.
He's like, no, no, no, we don't have time. You can't help her. You
And Jesus finds a way to minister to both.
So check it out. What does Jesus say to her in verse 34? The woman with the issue of blood, he said to her, daughter, your faith is
has made you well.
Go in peace and be healed of your affliction.
What I love about that is this is the only time in the Gospels,
where Jesus calls
A woman daughter.
What Jesus speaks over her?
It's truth. What Jesus speaks over her is her identity.
And her identity?
as a daughter of God.
He tells us what our identity is, but here's the thing.
Her issue.
Had defined her identity for twelve years.
Have you ever been defined by an issue?
Have you ever found yourself?
I think it's a little bit more of a game. Being identified by your issue and maybe it's maybe it's a handicap. Maybe
That you're not proud of maybe it's something that happened to you that you were victimized by
Have you ever felt defined by your issue?
This woman had.
She was poor because of her issue.
Her name isn't even given to us. All we know is that she has an issue.
Even the Bible itself defines her by her issue, but Jesus does not.
Jesus calls her daughter.
And so today, if you feel like you've become identified or defined by your issue, can I remind you that Jesus has an identity to speak over you that's not?
Your problem.
But it's your position. It's your relationship in him. You are a son.
You're a daughter of the Most High God, and if you are in Christ,
You're a new creation, not defined by any sin or any issue or any...
Anything that happened to you, but defined by Jesus Christ.
Himself.
So if you're wondering, "Man, I should journal something this week." I think you should journal, "What does Jesus say about me?"
Because we all have these things that we say about ourselves in our head.
We have this inner monologue.
about what we speak about ourselves and what our dreams are and and sometimes we get our dreams and our monologue still doesn't change it's not enough we have to keep chasing.
But what does Jesus say about us?
And so if you have a chance this week, journal, write down.
Who has Jesus said that I am?
Who am I in him?
Am I enough?
And as you journal and you write that down, ask yourself, does what he has to say about me line up with what I have to say about myself?
Was the woman with the issue of blood that she see herself as a daughter?
of the most high god or did did she see herself as?
Defined by her problem.
I don't know, but I know that's a trap that the enemy can get us into. So I want to ask you,
To challenge yourself, wrestle with that, journal about it this week, and ask the Lord,
Or what have you said about me? And is it line up with what I say about myself?
now back to the text because jairus is still stressed out and he's like we've got to go.
And his worst.
1999, nightmares come true. Verse 35, while Jesus was still speaking, he said,
Some came from the ruler of the synagogue's house, who said, your daughter.
Is dead.
Why trouble the teacher any further?
"'And as soon as Jesus heard the word that was spoken, he said, "'Ensometham
To Jairus.
Don't be afraid.
Only belief.
And I believe that's the word that Jesus has for you and I today. You look at your circumstance, you look at your situation.
Don't be afraid.
Belief in him.
The lord Jesus christ.
And so Jesus says, all right, here we go.
I already healed one daughter.
There's another daughter I want to go interact with. And Jesus goes, he takes three.
Peter, James, and John.
He goes to the house of Jairus.
People are crying.
People are wailing.
Verse 39, when Jesus came in, he said to them, why make this commotion and weep? The child isn't dead. The child
The child is sleeping.
And the people were like, what are you? Are you crazy?
"She's dead. She's not breathing." Her heart stopped.
she's not alive and Jesus is like nope
she is she's just sleeping
And they ridiculed him, verse 40, but when he put them all outside, he
He took the father and the mother of the child.
And those who were with him, and he entered where the child was lying. And so you get to see in this picture.
it's mom and dad, it's jairus and his wife
It's the daughter.
A child.
Maybe eight, maybe ten years old.
And you've got you got you
Jesus, Peter, James, and John.
In this room.
It's quiet. The multitudes aren't there. The throngs are gone. Or maybe they're waiting outside the house.
In Jesus' name.
Verse forty one takes the child by the hand, and he said to her,
Little girl, I say to you,
Arise.
And immediately the girl arose.
and walked. Oh.
Oh, first she was 12 years of age.
she was not eight or ten she was twelve.
And they were overcome with great amazement.
But he commanded them strictly,
That no one should know it and said that something should be given her to eat
He,
Raises her from the dead.
Tells everybody don't tell anyone about this
And then he's like, "Hey, get her a snack.
that's crazy.
Mom and dad just witnessed a miracle.
They would want to go tell the whole world.
My daughter that was dead is now alive?
And she says like no no don't tell everybody just get her something to eat
See, Jesus cares about our needs.
Jesus cares about our situations.
and he wasn't just thinking about jairus and he wasn't just thinking about the death of the girl he was interested in her hunger.
After he
Rose her from the dead. That's crazy.
hey can you get her a snack? i'm a dad i have a a nine year old girl and eleven year old boy and before bedtime every night they want a snack.
And Jesus is worried about the snack of the kid.
Because he cares about her needs.
And he cares about your needs.
He knows what you need.
And it may not just be the big problem,
It might be the little problem, but he cares about all of them.
Peter says in his epistle,
Cast all your cares upon him, for he cares for you.
And this is the Jesus that we see at Jesus.
Who cares about two daughters.
One poor,
Twelve years, medically bankrupt.
And the other one
A 12 year old girl.
Who was from a wealthy?
family.
Not medically bankrupt.
But just hungry for a snack.
And Jesus takes care of both.
He speaks.
Life over both of them.
He reminds them of who they are in him.
They're daughters.
And that's what he's about. And so today, we're going to talk
Can I just remind you that like Jairus, you can run to Jesus?
You can come running. He gets off the boat and Jarrus is like, I'm coming. I need help.
You can have faith like Jairus.
And like him, we can come running in need. And just like the healed woman,
With the issue of blood, we can come in faith, believing, "off we can just..."
man if jesus would just let us.
Spend a moment with him.
I know that he can help me with my problem.
And here's where I want to close.
It's Hebrews chapter 4, verses 14 through 16.
And this is one I'll remind you of.
Jesus has a ministry today.
He's not hanging on a cross.
He's sitting
On the throne,
And the Bible says he's sitting at the right hand of the Father.
In Romans chapter 8, it says that he is interceding on our behalf.
He's sitting next to his dad. he's like, he
Andrew needs help.
and you can fill in your name in the blank. they need help.
and I know what they need.
She needs healing.
He needs a snack.
Whatever it is, Jesus knows.
He is our great high priest. He is the advocate.
at the right hand of the father for us. That's the ministry that he has. And so when you pray,
You're actually being invited into the ministry of Jesus. And you go, Lord, I need help. And he goes, I know.
I know exactly what you need. Thanks for asking.
I've got you.
And so here's where we're going to close. Hebrews chapter 4, verses 14 through 16.
Seeing then that we have a great high priest who has passed
Through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God.
11. Let us hold fast our confession.
For we don't have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses.
But he was in all points tempted as we are.
Yet without sin.
So let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace.
That we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in our time of need.
And our time of need.
yeah.
That's when we come.
Just like Jairus, just like the woman with the issue of blood.
We come to get help in our time of need.
And we pray and we go,
Jesus, would you help me?
And he says, "Yeah
I'll help you and it may not be in the time that you expect or in the way that you expect
Because nobody expected him to worry about that girl's snack.
But he cares.
And he loves and he knows exactly what you need.
And he is good.
You can trust him.
And so this week as you pray,
Run to him, run to the throne of grace.
And know that your prayers are being heard by a compassionate,
King.
Who cares for you?
So let's pray to Him together.
Heavenly Father, we come boldly to your throne of grace.
To get help in our time of need.
Jesus.
Well, you're in need of a touch from you, Lord. Some of us need
Some of us need hope.
All of us need help.
And Lord, we pray that you would show us.
How to find that in you.
Lord, that you would bring healing to us, that you would
Reveal your way and your word to us, God.
Whether it's sickness and death
Or whether it's separation and anxiety, whether it's loneliness, or...
Whatever it is that we're battling and fearing and facing.
I pray that you would show yourself strong
And teach us to trust you.
Because you care for us.
We love you, Jesus. We thank you that you sit on the right hand of the Father and that you are talking to your dad for us and that our name is on your lips. Lord, that's beautiful. We thank you.
That you care for each one of us.
And that you are saying, "Hey, Dad,
Andrew needs help.
John needs help.
Mariah needs help. Lord, you are speaking that.
right now over us. And we thank you for the help that we have in you.
And we pray that today,
We will be walking in faith, believing that you've got it.
Lord, you've got every situation under control because you are sovereign. You are King of Kings and Lord of Lords, and we trust you.
So we thank you, Jesus, and we pray all of this in your name.
Amen.